---
title: "uBot: another Golang Telegram Bot API library"
layout: single
tags: git github telgram bot api golang
category: development
classes: wide
---

I've pushed my latest pet project to Github!

I'm writing this library in the process of learning Golang, I'm trying to write a library that aims to be minimalistic, idiomatic and can be maintained with minimal effort. 

## Rationale

There are many proven and solid libraries out there (I used [Telebot](https://github.com/tucnak/telebot) and I would reccomend it), but in the end they all do too much and end up adding 
another layer of complexity on top of the [Telegram Bot API](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api), which is actually very clean and simple.

So instead of learning a new library I focused on the API itself and realized that I didn't need most of the fancy things that existing library offer:
* Complete typemapping. Why? Most of the time I need just few of the data from each update, even worst: these data is often optional and therefore static mapping won't save me from zero value or pointer checking.
* Cryptic routing functionalities. Seriously? 
* Certificate handling. Ok, I will run my bots behind a reverse proxy most of the time, other times the bot will get its updates from a AMPQ server, and so on. I will let the user implement his own update source instead and deal with all the peculiarities of 

In the end I decided to implement a basic HTTP client and pair it with a mini library to access JSON responses I wrote some years ago.

At the moment, the code is very much work in progress: it's buggy and the API coverage is far from complete but you should already be able to write simple bots and play with the code. Anyway, adding new API methods is trivial and you don't even need to write 

## Example bot

A simple bot that greets the user when started:

```golang
package main

import (
	"context"
	"sync"

	"github.com/sdurz/axon"
	"github.com/sdurz/ubot"
)

func main() {
	bot := ubot.NewBot(&ubot.Configuration{APIToken: "<yourapikey>"})
	bot.AddMessageHandler(
		ubot.MessageHasCommand("/start"),
		func(ctx context.Context, b *ubot.Bot, message axon.O) (done bool, err error) {
			chatId, _ := message.GetInteger("chat.id")
			bot.SendMessage(axon.O{
				"chat_id": chatId,
				"text":    "Hello!",
			})
			return
		})

	var wg sync.WaitGroup
	bot.Forever(context.Background(), &wg, ubot.GetUpdatesSource)
}
```

## Conclusion

Find [uBot](https://github.com/sdurz/ubot) on Github. 