---
title: Yet another Golang Telegram Bot API library - Part 2
layout: single
toc: true
tags: git github telgram bot api golang
category: development
draft: true
---

## Rationale


### Maintaining all of the API Typs is a huge task
... and I'm lazy.


### Mapping optional values in struct can be tricky. 
Mapping optional values as _zero_ values don't work. Sometimes a _zero_ value will match the default value in the API, sometimes it won't, therefore we should rely on pointers even for simple types. Handling even a simple _bool_ as a pointer is _very_ tedious.

Structs play well as JSON objects and a struct pointers can represent an optional struct value. If we want to be strict in the way we represent mandatory and optional structs we shoud use struct pointers for optional structs and structs for mandatory values. Anyway, when using an API would not be clear when a pointers should be used instead of a struct, a developer should always check Telegram's documentation to understand when and why pointers are used instead of structs.
 
### Navigating through nested properties can be tricky.
 Navigating through fully mapped responses is tedious because a lot of checking for _nil_ pointers or _zero values_, even worst it's not trivial to understand wheter a nested value is to be accessed by value or pointer dereferencing.

### My choice

I've chosen not to map every single message type and I opted for relying on Go's generic mapping. I used typedefs and structures to wrap generic types and provide some accessor methods. 
This basically means that the developer will have to read the documentation from Telegram to know how to craft request messages or access response values.

On the other hand they will always refer only to the most up to date documentation on Telegram's site and won't need to check uBot's documentation to understand how type mapping works.

Accessing nested properties is far more easy with accessor methods:

```golang
typedef O map[string]interface{}

if value, err := o.GetString("root.child.value"); err != nil {
    return
}

```

than checking pointer values:

```golang

var value string
if root.child != nil {
    child := *(root.child)
    if child.value != nil {
        value = *(child.value) 
    }
}
if value == "" {
    return
}

```

Even composing messages becames really concise:

```golang
message := O{
    "chat_id": 23479847,
    "text": "Hello!",
    "reply_to_messageid": 345,s
}